# Final Blog Compliation

Interactive Data Dashboard: https://sammymustafa.shinyapps.io/final/

Climate change is becoming a bigger issue each day. With this, it is up government officials to take both preventative and responsive measures to protect and preserve our environment. However, not all countries are active in establishing policies and laws that benefit the current and future status of our ecosystems. In fact, this is what the Environmental Performance Index (EPI) studies: it quantifies the environmental performance of a state's policies. From a wide range of indicators weighted accordingly, it highlights sustainability leaders and calls out laggards with the potential of identifying policy weaknesses that need to be addressed.

However, what benefits does considering the environment in policy making offer to governments? Why are some countries so involved in preserving the environment? With these ideas in mind, the main question I strived to answer was "What are the wide-scope effects of devotion to environmental and sustainability policy?" Any observed improvements in certain variables, whether it be economic-related or citizen-related, can shed to light the potential of taking more action in environemntal preservation.

With this, I acquired the EPI data from the 2022 report ([EPI Yale University, 2022](https://epi.yale.edu/downloads)), which included each country's current rank, rank from 10-years prior, and point change from those 10 years. I complemented this data with several world development indicators of these countries from the World Bank ([World Bank, 2022](https://databank.worldbank.org/source/world-development-indicators#)). These inidiactors included a wide-scope of information about the country related to their economics (ex: GDP per capita), citizens (ex: life expectancy), as well as potential reasons for the high or low EPI scores of the countries (ex: exports and imports). By merging both these datasets, I hoped to show the trends of specific variables overtime for a single country while highlighting their current and previous EPI scores. The interactive aspect of this allows for a deep exploration of the results of various countries and allows for the juxtaposition of trends between countries. Furthermore, it allows for the user to consider whether or not these changes are correlated to the change in EPI. Overall, this can highlight the potential benefits that come with having a higher EPI score to encourage more refined environmental protection policies.

